I hope you enjoyed this episode brought
to you by our sponsors at whoop you can
save 15% off your purchase when you go
to whoop calm and use the code I tee at
checkout now enjoy the episode everybody
welcome to impact theory
today's guest is Russell Brunson he's
the CEO and co-founder of clickfunnels
which is now the fastest-growing
non-vented back software company in the
world with a following of roughly two
million entrepreneurs along with his
partner he took clickfunnels from zero
to roughly 100 million dollars in
revenue in just three short years and on
top of all of that business success he's
also an accomplished author and an
extraordinary state champion
all-american wrestler who finished his
college career as one of the top 10
wrestlers in the country Russell thank
you for having me I'm so excited it's
really cool to have you here obviously
we've gotten to know each other from our
trips to Puerto Rico and and I have to
say I'm very impressed with what you've
accomplished and given what everybody is
going through right now I wanted to
start with some of the lessons that you
actually learned in wrestling you've
talked a lot about hard work and what
you learned through the process one what
makes you good at wrestling I think
that's where I want to start so it's
funny because I don't I know that I
wasn't ever the best athlete but I am
super grateful for a dad who was really
good at like like watching what I would
what I would do and make mistakes that
made him sitting down with me and like
figuring out how to fix things but never
like the guy who was undefeated I was
never the guy who who won every match I
was the guy who would lose a match and
come back and we sit down and we figure
out what was were the mistakes what
adjustments when you make and we
practice and practice we practice the
next time we go out we'd win and so
that's kind of what made me a great
wrestler that is awesome dude I love
that story I love the way that you know
when if somebody wins just from the jump
they're sort of naturally gifted one of
the things about Bo Jackson that I
always found sort of heartbreaking is
when you ask him like what made you so
good he's always like mom I'm just
naturally talented and I was found that
crushing because it's like I'm not
naturally talented so for me everything
has sort of been the scramble of trying
to learn but I went through
this that that period you talk about of
this sort of devastation where you
expected to kill it and then you lose
and you're like oh [__] I went through
that in film school where dude I thought
I was just going to dominate I thought
that I was a natural-born filmmaker and
look I had my fears that maybe I wasn't
but like I was sort of cruising on this
you know I'm good at this
I had natural talent and then I really
got faced with the fact that I wasn't
naturally talented and in fact at the
time I didn't have really any talent for
this thing that I loved at all and so my
life one I went to a really dark period
cuz this is all before mindset and stuff
like that that that word had not entered
my vocabulary at all at the time and so
I had no sense of oh I can build myself
up I can get better
so it's rad that your dad really helped
you you know focus on improvement and
getting better talk to me a little bit
about cuz talk to me about discipline is
where I was headed because I think that
what we're gonna see in through Koba 19
and the crisis and what I think is going
to happen to the economy which is is
gonna be less than ideal it's gonna be
somewhere between less than ideal in
catastrophic and so I think what the
people who are going to win are the
people that are gonna be able to start
over and one thing that you've talked a
lot about you certainly talked about in
your newest book traffic secrets is
understanding that look some things
could just go away overnight and how you
respond to that is going to be really
really essential so what's the role of
discipline in your life how can people
get more of it in their own lives yeah I
think now I've been thinking a lot about
excite you know obviously I hope work
the huge entrepreneur community of
entrepreneurs and think a lot of them
are freaking out right now for you know
all the all the normal reasons and
what's been interesting is watching a
lot of them who just have like frozen up
right now it's like I don't know what to
do and as I work them and talk through
with with a whole bunch of them it's
like understanding that so many of them
are so scared of like failure so scared
of whatever the next thing is but they
never they're not willing to like to
take the step and so there's frozen
witch
like the worst the worst possible thing
and I think one of the most valuable
things I got out of wrestling that that
ties back to this was like when you're
wrestling you step on the mat and when
you lose it's like I lost this match but
it'll never sounds like I'm a loser that
I lost this match let me go figure out
what I need to do to win next time
whereas it seems like the business so
many people have it tied to their
identity into their to everything that
when they lose that they say I'm a loser
it's because of that like they're scared
to loose didn't want to feel like the
loser they're scared of you know maybe
they have a dream or a vision they're
scared that they try to fails that the
dream will disappear I think I think the
biggest thing that's helped me
throughout this I think that I think
most people need to have is just is
going in with the expectation of like
it's okay if I lose this K if I fail
like it doesn't mean I'm a failing means
like this the situation failed but then
when you detach yourself from that then
it's so much easier to be like okay what
was wrong what I need to tweak and go
out and try it again and try it again
and try it again because so many people
were just so frozen right now and I
think that's the that's the biggest
thing I thing with mindset is just
helping people to detach the the
consequences of the failure being their
own it and as opposed to failure being
being like a match like the thing that
just that failed that you can go back
and fix and and figure out the next step
with that makes sense it does one thing
so I wrestled exactly one time in my
life it was for I want to say what's
what's a normal round three minutes in
high schools like to two to two minutes
okay so probably two minutes then and it
was I'm not joking it was the single
most physically exhausting thing I've
ever done in my life it felt like I was
fighting to survive I ended up so this
was back in middle school I this is
before MMA I end up putting the guy in a
headlock and basically just trying to
choke him because I was so [__] tired
I was like dude I have to do something
like I'm dying over here
and so in that I realized yo people that
get good at this this [__] is inhuman so
what what I want to know is how do you
like pain so there's an awesome quote I
wish I remember who said it but fatigue
makes cowards of us all and I think that
people people are gonna face fatigue in
this like the having to get up and try
and try and try again if they've lost
their job the thought of rebuilding a
mad
somebody in their 50s losing their job
now and they're like yo I've got to
rebuild like I'm [__] tired the
thought of having to start from scratch
is is bordering on unbearable what what
did you discover about yourself about
the human animal in in building up that
kind of conditioning where it's all on
the line dude everybody is watching you
you're there in the middle of a ring you
were literally in a skin-tight outfit
dude there isn't nowhere to hide and
you've got to pull it out like uh one
thing that to meet the ability to suffer
is one of the most powerful things that
an entrepreneur can build translate that
for me from from the physical to the
business world yeah man the story popped
my head me start saying that was I
remember it was in high school I
remember which which year was but I
remember um you know every sin every
single week way to cut weight so we come
in I weigh like 160 on Monday morning
and I got be 130 by Thursday right so
it's like every morning you come every
week you come in right
oh so you put the plastics on in the
sweats on and all this stuff you start
running and cutting wait I remember is
that like a really really hard practice
hadn't eaten or drinking much that whole
week and just beat up and remember our
coach pulled this all out into this like
dark hallway kind of behind the gym and
he had this conversation with us about
attitude and I remember I remember the
whole conversation ice mmm saying that
like like no matter what happens you're
gonna make weight no matter what happens
it's gonna suck no matter what happens
like you have to go through this process
so that you can you can really affect is
your attitudes you can have a good
attitude or a bad attitude I remember
that night laying there in bed just
thinking like I like you I have been
like that in the worst attitude if I'm
hungry I'm thirsty I'm tired I'm worn
out and I remember the next day I came
in I put my sweats on my plastics on put
everything on you know and before
everyone showed up I was out there jump
roping and I just thought I think I'm
gonna have a smile on my face like the
biggest smile I possibly can have and so
I started to smile and also my teammates
start coming in and they're all like
just you know like how I felt but I was
like I smiling I'm jumping rope and I
brunson why are you so happy why are you
smiling and I remember all I said I the
thing popped my head I was like I don't
know but I've never seen someone lose
with a smile on their face so I'm gonna
smile from now on and I just you know
chills
and so that became a thing and my other
team a started doing that when we come
out there and we were like as the more
pain it was like we would put the smile
on like just keep doing because I've
never seen someone loses a smile
on their face and so that's something
that you know cuz I'm in business now
this is my 17th year and there has been
like the ups and the downs there's been
you would build a company with the
hundreds of employees and then like one
day coming in and laying off 80 people
overnight and then you know the same
thing you know the the cycles that
happen multiple times I remember that
feeling coming in where it's just like
you've got to lay off 30 people today
and then you gotta concealer 50 that
like they got to keep working and
there's a vision and there's a mission
and like remember thinking that a couple
times from just like God like I I don't
know if I even believe it anymore I'm so
tired and be down and everything seems
so heavy and then it was like but if I
don't come in with a smile like that
that's it right and and I you can't lose
with a smile on your face so we come in
and we regroup and we talk about again
then we get back to working and keep
going that's that's a like an obsession
of mine so it's what I call
physiological hooks so there are there
are things in your physiology that allow
you to manipulate your physiology so
you're one of the most famous is the
smiling thing so I tend not to get angry
but when I get angry I stay angry and so
I had actually early in my marriage that
ended up being like a lot of wasted time
I would get angry with something Lisa
did that that she would even agree that
I was justified in being angry but at
the end of the day I just thought it
doesn't serve me I just wasted all this
time being pissed off like you said you
control your attitude so I wrote this
letter to myself and I said hey me it's
me you have no ulterior motive but you
know what the studies say if you force
yourself right now to laugh out loud it
will change your neuro chemistry and
this is something that I think people in
in this time are really gonna have to be
thoughtful about is alright I've got to
take control of my neural chemistry I've
got to take control of the way that I
feel because if I feel terribly like
your friends coming in to practice and
they're just moping about they're
exhausted then that practice is going to
be worse than it could have been if they
had forced themselves into a positive
mental state and then the performance is
going to be worse because the practice
was worse and like that to me that's not
about wrestling that's about life that's
about being the human animal why do you
think like you were able to trans
like this is something I see a lot you
look at Arnold Schwarzenegger and all
the success he had in bodybuilding he
was able to translate into other areas
of his life the success that you had
early in wrestling you've obviously been
able to translate what what's sort of
the secret for you to to the level of
success you've had you know it's it's
interesting how similar my wrestling
mindset and businesses it's not same a
lot of people in fact I've had a lot of
people last years I've kind of rub
rubbed the wrong way because of it but I
look at it as a sports like when I
started my business I was looking around
the first thing I looked at was like who
do I have to be I remember when we came
in there was a software company I was
like all right that's our competitor and
it was like I wasn't quiet about either
made known to myself to my team to my
entire community we're gonna beat them
and then we went after him aggressively
and aggressively and and just like I
would if I was gonna be wrestling or
competing against and I like a reverse
injured everything he did I figure out
what they were doing why they're doing
listen to every podcast interview the
founders on it understands myosin what
he was doing and we we just like
relentlessly pursued them until we
caught them and then we passed them and
if we passed them that I was like it's
funny cuz I was like I need something
new to go after and then there was
another company that was bigger than
then I was like eh that's the next
company we started going after him the
same thing I pursued them and like
looked at and reverse engineer what
they're doing and how they're doing and
why they were teaming and trying to
figure it out and I remember as we start
getting closer and closer to them the
CEO of that company called me one day
and he was like he said why are you so
upset at like why do you hate me and I
hate our company so much I kind of
caught me off guard like what do you
mean he's like he's like you were out
there always like trying to like you
know do all he seems to beat us and I
was like oh I don't hate you guys at all
I got don't but respect like I know more
about you than I think you do like I
understand what you doing why do you
love I don't believe you do I got I
don't hate you at all but but you're my
competitor if you're who I chose I have
to beat you like that's that's how it
works and he was like I'm ever he came
back and he was like I he's like I
wasn't really an athlete so I'm not used
to that like he's like it's interesting
I thought you mad you're mad at us he
hated us sounds like no like it remind
me of the scene in my favorite movies
The Dark Knight where the very end
Joker's falling off the cliff and Batman
asking is like he's why are you trying
to kill me and the Joker starts laughing
is like I'm not trying to kill he was
like he's like without you like there's
no me like I can't do what I do without
you and I feel like that that that's
been such my mindset and in fact you
know that we passed that company it's
like hey who's the next people we found
who they are
studying them and understanding him in a
deeper level I'm like and so for me it's
I don't think I could be in business
versus the businesses to to grow or
without a without a goal or purpose or
something to strive towards and to move
move move forward I was married I
remember reading them he was a pulling
Bonaparte it said something about what
man will do for a first scrap of ribbon
I feel like maybe that's like in
wrestling it's what it was for me like I
did like I to go and I went to it I was
a state champ then I was an all-american
like I kept going for the whatever the
next rapid ribbon I had to get it and I
feel like in business it's the same
thing for me it's just like it's a game
there's competitors and we're trying to
figure out the landscape where we fit in
and how we how we pursue and how we go
after him dude I think that is genius so
as somebody I didn't like being
competitive when I was younger because I
was afraid I was gonna lose and of
course I didn't want to say that so I
was just saying or I may not even have
understood it if I'm completely honest
there was just it triggered some
something in me which I would now
recognize as insecurity which I can now
articulate as I had this fear of having
proof empirical data that I wasn't good
enough which of course is my biggest
fear when I was a kid and now getting
into business and realizing yo
[__] like you've got to be going
hard and this is like look I like you I
would be shocked if somebody was was
interpreting my competitiveness my
desire to win as hate but it it is what
I called the dark side it is a dark
energy right there's the light side
which is the beautiful things I want to
create and the gratitude I have for what
I have in my life and all of that and
it's amazing but then there's also the
competitive side of wanting to win of
saying look I'm going after that person
and the people who so I'm not a sports
guy but like because of my mentality I
constantly find myself drawn to athletes
so I'll use that that language but
please don't mistake me for an athlete
but you know when you talk to the guys
that are really really great and you
look at the amount of tape they watch
like how they study their competitors
they study themselves they stare naked
Liat their inadequacies it it dude
there's something there and the fact
that people don't put in that time and
energy to learn what is going on is
crazy the the amount of insights you'll
get are extraordinary and that to me is
is the power so
as we go into this which probably is
going to be a recession might be a
depression how do you think about
overcoming the obstacles that are gonna
come your way how do you avoid falling
into the trap of thinking that you know
everything already like how do you stay
nimble um
so quite special when you know at this
point our company's so big bit you have
a lot of friends who are solar
entrepreneurs and they're able to be
nimble because like it's just them and
they can you know now we've got 400 plus
employees and it's a it's harder to B to
be nimble I think it's been interesting
because I've been trying to trying to
figure that out and you know one of our
mutual friends Dean Graciosa I talked to
him about this a lot as everything start
hit anything start shifting and I
remember watching him because I again
I'm I'm kind of a marketing nerd so I
remember when I was in high school I
used to sit back and I would watch input
like I remember I watched Dean on
infomercials back when I was a kid and I
would take notes I'm like whoa like the
way he said things I remember watching
as it came up to like the last big
recession kind of watching all Dean's
infomercials in at a time there was
probably I don't know 30 different get
rich and real estate infomercials on TV
like anyone who ever flipped a house and
they're live for like I'm an infomercial
guru and teaching people how to do it
right and and then the recession hit and
in the housing market crashed and went
from like 50 infomercial gurus to like
three down to one and then there was
just Dean and Dean continued running
infomercials the entire thing and then
and then and then beyond and I remember
I didn't know him at the time I remember
watching and just being interested how
like he was the only ones still on and
so I asked him later how in the world is
you did you survive when everyone else
got got crushed and he said some super
profound he's like they didn't shift
I didn't shift my product I mean a
product was still the same he's like I
shifted our market in my product he said
everyone else was speaking very
aspirational like how do we how do we
create this thing you know how do we how
do we get rich how to make money high
cleans like that he's like I shipped it
for me an aspirational to looking at my
business more like a life preserver like
that like how do you how do you protect
yourself how this product can can
protect you and and so as we started
coming in this thing I realized the same
thing like in fact I talked a little
about in traffic seekers I talked about
the fact that when any customers coming
to you they're they're either moving
towards you they're they're moving
towards you in one or two directions
though they're moving towards pleasure
or they're moving away from pain right
it's like they're coming to me
because they weren't started business
when I get rich do they want to make
money or they want to whatever or
they're coming to me because I hate my
boss and you got this pain like it's
just a miserable I need to need to get
out of pain if you look at the economy
over the last you know seven or eight
years most because for most people spend
pretty good most people are buying any
product or service whether it be Fitness
health you know business anything for
that matter it's like they're buying it
because if I move towards pleasure but
you know a couple weeks ago everything
shifted where people are on pain now I
think the companies are gonna survive
and be nimble or ones I understand a
ship their messaging where it's like how
can how can the product or service I
sell how does it get somebody out of
pain and that's the marketing the
messaging people need and they want
right now and it's funny cuz like as I
was launching the the traffic I
literally we launched the book the same
day that President Trump told everyone
to go home and if you look like my
marketing campaign ahead of time it was
like you know how we built this hundred
hundred million dollar your company and
how traffic how much traffic we get all
these things and then I was like that is
the wrong message right now and so we
literally like my team on my guy
everything every ad we've written every
pre-cell every video like just delete
them all we're redoing everything and
like this is the messaging the messaging
is and which are talking about I got a
buddy down the street who owns a local
waffle place the best waffles in the
world if your kind of Boise I'll take
you there and and he opened the same day
that the whole recession happened and it
was crazy because you look a like he's
got his business he opens the doors and
it's the same day that the literally
traffic you know usually restaurants you
have you have cars right physical
traffic driving by and people come and
they they come in the evenings like the
traffic stop and what happens all
companies they just they die like
traffic is the lifeblood of a company
and so the whole messaging shifted to
like look like if you want to survive
during these times then thrive on the
other side of this like you have to
master trafficking customers in Guinea
people in like this is literally your
company's life preserver during these
uncertain times so all the messaging
shifted the ads shifted the like the mag
everything shifted and and you know the
book launch has done insanely well and
everything's kind of come from that but
but it all came from like shifting the
message from towards pleasure to
understanding that we're in a time of
moving people away from pain I think
that the companies understand that and
understand that shift and messaging are
the ones they're gonna that are gonna
really win during this time you know one
thing that I think people need to be
very aware of is where they're at in
their life
are you moving towards something or away
from something so I've
we said that people fall into two
categories and I think you're right it
changes actually depending on where
you're at in your life what's going on
in the world but by nature I would say
that people are motivated by one of two
things either they're moving towards a
goal or they're moving away from a
problem I don't want to be broke I don't
want to be homeless I and then there's
other people that are like I want to
achieve this goal I want to win this I
want to be the best and knowing where
you come from will help you navigate the
world in a much more sane inducing way
because if you're being sort of true to
what aligns with you like for me moving
away from something is never very
interesting it takes me into like a very
uncertain a very uneasy place whereas
even if I'm in the middle of massive
uncertainty and I have fears for me to
shift my energy I need to pick a goal
something that I'm excited about so that
when I'm pursuing it even though the
outcome is gonna be that I outrun this
thing right I've been broke I've had
crazy debt I've been in a place
emotionally where I'm laying on my
carpet and I just [__] I don't have
any idea how I'm going to create
momentum in my life so I know what
that's like but the things that got me
up and moving were to believe that I
could change to believe that I could
grow to set a goal - to set a goal that
I was excited about and then wake up
every day and pursue that and that was
the thing that it I think a big thing
people have to do is like what where are
you at as a baseline reference point if
you're in looking at seeing all the
problems and all the things that are
wrong you're not in problem-solving mode
if you can shift over into
problem-solving mode so I've heard you
talk about that waffle restaurant before
and you gave the guys some brilliant
ideas about what to do like hey are you
sending people text messages and it's
like yeah to be top of mind to remind
people you know to incept them but you
have to be in that problem-solving mode
yeah is that something that you think
about intentionally is that something
you try to train your team to do is that
that to me seems like going back to what
you were saying at the very beginning
with your dad of like all right you can
look at you at the fact that you lost or
you can solve this problem yeah I think
is interesting too because I look at
most business owners and like I and I
know for me I did it I did it backwards
the first
a lot of times we come up with our
products or our services like we have an
idea like all I want to create this
thing we create it and then a fleece is
done like now we have to figure out how
to sell it and you figure out like a
sells message you create that and it's
like now I got to go find people to sell
to and then we're trying to find people
and it's like it's like backwards if you
look at the way the most successful
businesses grow look at the way the we
grew clickfunnels was when I had this
realization of like I don't want to go
and like create something and find
somebody sell - I wanna go find the
people that that that I'm passionate
about serving and then just listen
really really carefully right and I was
so people like the the the more money
makers will be like the money you make
could be direct relation how simple you
make somebody else's process right so
for me it's like I hope you will build
funnels to sell the products and
services and so you know when I when I
taught people the strategies here's how
you do it I made good money we made
software that made it simpler I made
more money when we had like done 40
things making simpler to make more money
and it's always like how do I simplify
this process for whoever the customers
how do I make it easier and and so like
the mindset that we're always having in
our here click funnels and me and my
team it's like we're sitting there and
listening to our audience like what is
they're looking for what do they want
what are they struggling and it's like
hey how do we make this process simpler
and every good product every good idea
everything that's that's been a winner
came from that like listening and then
like figuring how to solve the problem
all the ones were it was like Russell
has this great idea to in the morning
let me go let's go create it we're all
hoping he gets together let me like try
to give it to people those those are
ones that don't typically do very well
no matter how much like you know how
much push for stand money we put into it
to try to get adoption it's always
harder than the opposite way we're just
listening what people want to figure out
how is the best way to solve that for
them and anyway that's like the the
simplest thing is just listening that
how do we simplify this form how do we
simplify and you'll get paid more the
better you become at simplifying
processes and and and things for people
I love that idea of simplification
that's something so do you not know a
kagan yes yeah d all right super
interesting guy and I think one of the
things that makes him so effective he
said the superpower is making money and
what but what he means by that is his
super power isn't simplifying its in
breaking the process down into immediate
action and those two things simplifying
it and then taking immediate action to
are the exact things people need to be
obsessively focused with right now
because right now like first and
foremost if you're in a dire situation
take care of your basic needs men like
don't worry about launching the next
Facebook like make sure that you've got
a roof over your head that you can put
food on the table right and that's where
a lot of people are gonna crash and burn
is yo Maslow's hierarchy of needs has
stood the test of time for a reason like
there are just certain things safety
security like get those taken care of
and you may have to do a job that you
didn't want to do or you may have to
call people up and be banging the phones
if you're trying if you've got a product
that really has value in [__] like you
don't know how to get it out like you've
got to think like a direct marketer and
this is like where I think my own story
confuses people because like I'm so
intense and you know I've got like that
raw raw spirit but the reality is I'm
not to burn the ships at the shore guy
like I'm a yo keep your day job man like
when we launched quest we had a software
company so during the day I was running
a software company and nights and
weekends I was making protein bars
because I wanted to see if this would
work like you're saying make sure
there's an audience before you go like
we didn't get a warehouse and start
buying equipment until we were selling
protein bars I don't even think we
bought the equipment until we were
already profitable so we were making the
bars by hand which was pure insanity
making the bars by hand ourselves nights
and weekends to make sure that there was
something real there so what advice do
you have for somebody who's like yo I
just lost my job and I feel totally out
of control
what can they do as a solopreneur to get
like that first audience to get that
first sale yeah and I want to first off
agree with you people who message me all
the time like I get I read your book I'm
gonna quit my job and do this thing I'm
like no like no don't quit your job and
do the thing like keep your job because
you know as well as I do that like when
you have that like the in certainty and
like it makes the pressure so much
higher and it makes it so much harder to
like get creative and get figure things
out when when those needs are met and
well it's so much easier to go figure
things out
but someone like it's funny because I've
had conversation with some close friends
who've lost their jobs who are freaking
out right now and and I and I try to
explain what Mike you have to understand
that like the money did just disappear
like we're like this great wealth
transfer things are shifting around like
I
you know Perry Belcher but he's one of
my friends who own survival life.com and
he look at survival life in the last 30
days has made more money than the last
like ten years combined right like money
is shifting over there you look at you
know like it's not that it's disappeared
like people slum either it's not going
to the movie theaters and the
restaurants they're spending in other
places and like it's understanding that
and so if your whole world just got
pulled away from you it's not that the
money just just evaporate it just got
transferred somewhere so the first thing
he was looking like you where like where
is this getting tranche like what are
the companies and the businesses that
are making more money right now like
they can't handle it that they're
looking for more help because because
man also because of this new
circumstances everything is just just
growing like crazy so that's the first
thing second thing I look at is like
what is the skill set that is the most
valuable inside of a company and I've
got a friend who's a dentist I tease
them all time because you know most
dentists like there's a dentist they
like that's the most important person in
the business right I'm the person who
who does the thing on people's teeth and
had this little conversation I'm like
you're not the most important person
your business yeah I'm not me they can't
clean teeth I was like I was like the
most important person in your business
is the person who can get customers to
come in the front door because that
person can't bring customers in the
front door you have no teeth to clean
therefore your skill set is useless like
the most valuable person any company is
the person who we call Maury makers who
can make it rain you can bring people in
and it's like that's what it comes down
to like this book traffic secrets is
like the person you can drive traffic
isn't bring the customers in it becomes
the most valuable person in any company
I have friends who are so good at
driving traffic that they literally will
find a company that's struggling or
maybe on the downside and they'll come
and say hey look I can bring you the
thing that you're missing it's the holy
grail for your business in all
businesses its customers and I can bring
you as many as you want as often as you
want the only thing is like I don't work
for money I work for equity so if you
want me to do this I want 30% your
company and people are like just handing
them the company here you go because you
can bring it you can make it rain you
can bring me customers you can bring
leads and so I start shifting like if I
gotta figure out a skill set in this
market it's like the most valuable thing
I can learn is how do I make it rain for
a company and then I can go plug in a
company as I like find a coach like
whatever that is but now you're so
valuable they're like when when you know
things start going down like I figured
like the dental office that the two last
people in standing is the dentist the
dude who brings in customers they go
fire the receptionist to fire the the
the girl who does your teeth like all
that stuff gone except for the person
rings customer in and
person doing the actual fulfillment of
the service and so like it makes you so
valuable I think that I'd be aligning
with that figuring out the the markets
the industries the businesses that are
like booming right now and how can I go
plug into those and become the Rainmaker
because then you can write your own
paycheck from this point forward and
that's that's really the stability I
think to all of us want is to be able to
have that and if you have a skill so
like that you become invaluable alright
so let's talk about making it rain so
one of the cool things about traffic
secrets is you took an evergreen
approach anybody else writes this book
and I promise you it's gonna be
something that goes out of vogue
I mean honestly with the with what just
happened it would have gone out of vogue
before it even hit shelves so the fact
that you stopped you said one of the key
things you did here was you spent the
beginning just stopping and thinking
about how do I make sure that this is
something that lasts no matter what the
season no matter what's going on no
matter what you said tik-tok didn't even
exist when you started writing this by
the time he came out obviously ticket is
huge but the principles all apply
regardless of the platform so what are
some evergreen principles to being a
Rainmaker so the first step is really
identifying who your dream customer is
at a deep level like most people are
like oh like especially people that that
only have one traffic like one traffic
storm it may be they drive Facebook ads
like they know like oh here's my
interest my targeting and that's with
their customers but like no you have to
its go deeper that like really
understand I'm in a deep level like know
their likes and their fears and like
what they're interested in where they
hang out and like the better you
understand that person the more powerful
step two is the step number one is
identifying who they are and step number
two is understanding that like the power
of the Internet is the fact that it
gives us all all this crazy humans with
the things that we're passionate about
the ability to like group together
online in different spots right say we
take health and fitness or biohacking
for example so this is biohacking
everyone is passionate about biohacking
like they are hanging out together on
certain blogs right there's there's
maybe a dozen or so blogs that all the
bottom hackers go they read every single
day that part of their in the
communities and they're on these blogs
and then you go to podcasts like what
are all the podcasts that the bio
hackers listen to and there's a
passionate you know super passionate
audience and they're listening to all
these you know 50 different podcast and
then what are all the Facebook groups
turns and what are all the email
newsletters they subscribe to and so we
started looking at traffic instead of
like targeting on Facebook we started
looking at like where all these pockets
of customers where are they at and we
start looking at like oh my gosh there's
300,000 one
Blagh right here and there's you know
2.3 million listen to this podcast every
single and you start finding these
pockets of customers and then our job as
rain makers as traffic people is to come
back and say okay here's all these
pockets the customers how do I get
access to them like what's the best way
to to get and infiltrate these groups
and one of the strategies that we talked
about in the book is the strategy called
the dream 100 and basically what the
dream 100 is it's not figuring out like
how do I get a hundred customers it's
figuring out who are the hundred people
that already have access to my dream
customers so who's the person who owns
that blog has three hundred thousand
readers who's the who are the the
podcast host that that have that have
the the followings and the people that
they're they're listening to you right
and so one of the exercises I do inside
I think it's page 41 in the book I have
a little graph in there so it's okay
here's Facebook and make a list of all
the people in Facebook who have your
dream customers already congregated I
put all the Facebook groups so whether
the fanpage is one of the people to
already have like your dream customers
hanging out there and then you go to
Instagram who are the influencers
already have congregated your dream
customers we list out all the
influencers and then go to podcast and
who's all the podcasters and so you make
this list and eventually got 100 200 300
people to have all of your dream
customers on it and now it's like
understanding that I can go and I can I
can buy ads to the followings of these
people and you should but if I can like
if I can get to know and build a
relationship with one of these people
like a gatekeeper of this community they
can click a button and open up the
access to the entire community right for
example right now I'm lucky enough to
have you interview me on your on your
podcast and you've got a huge following
of people who are gonna hear about the
book and hopefully someone come buy the
book and it's like it's giving me access
to this huge thing and it's it's
interesting like we spend millions of
dollars a month on ads so much we do in
the businesses is building relationships
with the people who have access to these
huge audiences and then what's nice is I
can I can spend more time and energy
networking and marketing and building
relationships and spending money because
about you one of those people that say
yes it can sell a hundred or a thousand
or more of my products in fact I don't
know if you've gotten this far in the
book yet but I actually quote you in the
book from an interview you did where you
were talking about when you guys built
Quest initially but first thing you did
is you found here's all the influencers
and you send them out quest bars with
handwritten letters and you're like hey
if you hate him let us know if you like
him let us know but just want to send
you some of our stuff and you do the
same thing you watch all these
influencers send me
of ours handwritten letters and then
from that how much people loved it start
share with their audiences and boom it
it I'm assuming that's kind of the the
ground fire that initially launched
quest but right yeah 100% and that is
one of the most powerful strategies the
both of those things so one are you able
to identify your audience and then two
are you able to put together a
relationship like are you able to bring
value to that person find some way to
connect over time and that's where I say
like you people have to take care of
their needs first because to play this
game right it's not about the short-term
dollars and I've heard you tell similar
stories to my own story which is in the
beginning of your journey it was or I'll
speak for myself though I've heard you
say similar things out since the
language I'm going to use is maybe
derogatory I'll speak for myself so I
did every get-rich-quick scheme you
could imagine so when I was young dude I
was about it I was like there was this
thing for a while was typing for money
and I was like yo they're talking about
how much money you can make like you
know transcribing things I was like I'm
about it let's do it
and I just tried I tried selling
insurance door-to-door I did pyramid
schemes it didn't I really believed in
the product I was selling but still not
necessarily a good look and I just I
wanted it to happen fast and once I
broke away from that and I just started
thinking about okay I didn't obviously
say dream 100 but really identifying
like where is my customer base like the
the people that would I would really be
able to serve with this product where
are they right which is something you
wrote about the book me shout like you
gotta pick a niche once your niche tout
then it becomes a lot easier to win in
that in that space right you're not
competing against everybody they're dog
they're easy to find online you can
deliver a crushing amount of value so
doing that and then playing the long
game and building relationships not
trying to get anything in the short term
look I'm not a fool I get that acting in
that way and adding value to somebody
else it altima does come back to you
some percentage not all of it but like
one it feels good in the moment and then
to you you'll be able to weather a storm
because there gonna be other people
there for you and it goes
back to the story you told about Arsenio
Hall which I think it's really powerful
tell people that story it's it one I
because I have a follow-up question
about it which is building a platform
isn't the only way and I'm super cute l
the story because the people need to
understand the punchline before I can
believe yeah for sure
so one of the I talked about the book is
one of the most powerful ways to
infiltrate your dream 100 get to know
these people is by having your own
platform because like what like what do
I have to offer Tony Robbins what I have
to offer you know these these people
that I've loved to be you know all my
dream 100 like a lot of times they have
everything I'm not gonna pay them I'm
not gonna you know so what I had offered
the thing you have to offer is your
platform and I think there's a lot of
ways to infiltrate your dream 100 to get
to know people but we're in the most
powerful ways for sure is that like
they're like the reason why I met Tony
Robbins initially and I did a hold
YouTube videos like 10 minutes long
showing that a 10 year journey I went on
with Tony of helping him serve him and
do all these things for him before
eventually he promoted something for me
10 you know decade later but it was like
don't wait the door even opens because I
had a platform as it will help promote
him on top of my platform and opened the
doors and so many other people have had
a chance to meet it all came because I
had a platform to to be able to offer
him and it opens up opens up doors he
can't get otherwise so I'm a huge
believer that people should start their
own show it could be a YouTube show
could be a podcast could be a blog
doesn't really matter what but something
we can create a platform you can
leverage to to get to know people that
that own your your customers
alright well then let's talk about that
so I think we're gonna see the death of
an influencer class as advertising
revenues dry up so a lot of people that
have been making it their livelihood
it's going to I think stop being their
livelihood but any time where there's
massive disruption there is massive
opportunity and I think there's going to
be a whole new crop of influencer is to
actually figure out how to crack this
nut so what what are some of the as the
king of something was secret in the
title what are the secrets to building a
platform yeah a couple things like
number one is like yes arises our first
year you are not gonna be good and I
remember I started my first podcast was
called the marketing your car podcast I
called it that because I had a five
minute commute from my house to the
office and I was like Lisa I know I'll
be consistent films get my phone out in
a click record
is gonna talk while I Drive and I did a
five minute podcast every single day for
five or six seven years now I mean it's
been it's been a long long time and
what's crazy is my first setup I didn't
know how to track staff
the first three years I hadn't I just
didn't know I just set it up I started
recording and my brother pug published
him and I'd ask him that people were
listening he's like I don't know how to
check so we didn't even know I'm so
grateful no I didn't know because
because I just kept publishing I'm like
I'm driving anyway might as well do
these things and it was about 300
episodes in when we shifted it from the
marketing in your car to marketing
secrets and that time we switched the
platform we set up the analytics and my
brother's like oh my gosh we're getting
like a hammer like ten thousand people
perhaps so we're listening right now I
was like oh I got had no idea this is
amazing and we start looking back at the
stasi look at like how how little it was
for so long and then I remember one of
my this guy that came to my world he's
one of our hyper successful students now
he was like when I came in you know I
started I came in all episodes 300 I was
like I'm the binge listen to everything
so I started number one he's like man
the first like 40 or 50 episodes were so
bad he's like you were the worst ever
he's like but about 45 46 you started
like getting in the rhythm and then like
it started getting good now like I love
it
and so the first lesson is like you have
to publish long enough to find your
voice like most people do like two
episodes like god no one's coming but
it's like no yeah it's like make this a
commitment you got to do this for a long
time because the first no one's gonna be
listening and that's okay because you're
gonna be really bad but it's gonna give
you the ability to like find your voice
that's number one number two is and I
have an article here that from one of my
friends Nathan Barry
he wrote a blog post called endure long
enough to get noticed he talked about he
said like if you look at most good TV
shows like usually you don't find out a
good TV show so it's like in season five
or season six right or movies they're
like you know the third movie then you
go back and watch all now because
they've survived and he said that you
know so because there's so much content
being created all the time that us as
consumers we wait for the best stuff to
rise to the top and so the first one
you're publishing all the time is
because you're trying to find your voice
that's step number one step number two
is you're doing it long enough that your
dream customers can find you and so it's
coming down saying I'm gonna be
consistent I'm gonna do this I always
tell my people like publish something I
can least a hundred episodes by the time
you've done 100 episodes and I recommend
at least it like in a year window so
you're doing multiple times a week
they've done in a year you'll
found your voice your people have found
you and you'll be financially free and
so far anybody who's taking on that
challenge by the end of the year they
have done exactly that they've found
their voice that people have found them
they've been financially free and so
it's just like one of those things that
just it's it's scary it's weird and it
feels painful at first cuz it's not fun
when you're really bad but then you get
in your stride and then it just it gets
really good yeah I will echo that
sentiment so when I first started this
was back at Quest I started a show
called inside quest which would be very
recognizable to fans of impact theory
but when we first started it even though
I would say that if we all have some
element of talent where we get just
disproportionate wins mine is for sure
verbal ability so the more I have
practice the more energy I put into
being able to articulate a message to be
able to speak extemporaneously
I just got disproportionate returns from
that so somebody else might do the same
thing if I'm getting a one point three X
return on my time maybe they're getting
a point seven right so for me like
that's a that's a pretty big gap when I
started I was so frustrated no one was
listening I didn't think I was good at
it
and I went to my producer who I also
happen to be married to and I said you
know I look I'm I'm running a
billion-dollar business over here like
this doesn't make sense I'm wasting my
[__] time but like what are we doing
and she said over my dead body and
ironically what the exact amount of time
she said was you're gonna do this for a
year and she said if at the end of the
year it's still not delivering like you
don't feel that it's delivering enough
value to be worth doing it then we'll
stop but she was like I really believe
in this I really think that you can add
value to people's lives so just take the
time to figure it out take the time to
let the audience find you and of course
now at the time it was just like one
thing that we were doing to try it
honestly started as a way to add value
to my employees and now it's become my
entire business model is predicated on
creating content so the the platform is
you're saying I think that's really
really powerful one thing I would just
kick myself in the face if I didn't ask
you about that you brought up earlier
you've gone through cycles before you've
been in business for a very long time
you've dealt with downturns I want to
know emotionally you said you know
you're coming in and you're laying off
half your people
you've got to convince the other half to
stay and you've got to be tied to the
mission and all of that how have you
stayed passionate about what you do how
much do you think about the why of what
you're doing how do you survive those
down times emotionally
yeah it's I think anyone who's create
something amazing has felt this before
um instincts when I got into business
like most people I think I did a lot of
the type from home and the selling door
so like I get it like weed eating cuz
like we want the money and you started
going after that that's what the initial
draw a lot of times it is like I need to
make some money and after I'm making
money really quickly your eyes how
unfulfilling that is and you're like ah
that was not that cool and then and then
you start seeing the success of the
people that you're whatever you're
selling to the people and then like that
becomes this next level of win we're
like oh my gosh like because I did
something cool like that person had this
big win and that becomes this drug
that's like like at least for me I get
unquenchable like I just keep I keep
wanting I desire like the more it
happens the more I want it and the more
and so for me like that's this thing and
so when when things would struggle I
remember I remember I like I use boxers
like my my motive of communication with
most of the world so it's this little
walkie-talkie app and an inbox er you
can if the message is really cool we put
a little star next to it so my kids had
a cute thing I'll put a star next to it
when people my friends or clients or
customers sent testimonials I put a star
next to it so you can go listen to all
the stars you want and so like when
times were down I'd go back and I'm just
going to listen I click on the star
section and listen and I just listen to
like 30 40 minutes that people tell me
how I change the life what happened how
it worked and was just like alright and
like listening to that got me back the
spot of like okay I got to do this and
then my favorite my favorite quote of
all time is Churchill however long and
hard the road and he's talking you know
to the to Parliament about this this war
they'd have to go on it's gonna be
brutal all these things how hard it's
gonna be in and then the variance says
like we're gonna you know victory a
victory at all cost victory however long
hard the road and so whenever I listen
to Rick reset on myself like this is
where we got to go and then it's like
all right we're going victory however
long are the road whatever it's got to
go but ever got to do we're just gonna
go and we're gonna go and we're gonna go
and that that phrase like however long
hard the road like rings to my head all
the time every time
I'm tired and frustrated I think about
the people I hear about success and then
and then we go after it and that's kind
of the draw for me the poll that's
amazing dude that so that's the third
time you can give me the chills in this
talk today that call from Churchill have
actually not heard that before and my
all-time paper quote is also Churchill I
need to just memorize it because
whenever I try to paraphrase it doesn't
have the punch but it's longer he's
talking about never give in never give
up not not for any reason like you keep
going except for once you say good sense
or something like that
like you just go and go and go and it
reminds me of exactly what you were just
saying and you know one thing that's
interesting about Churchill that I think
is very apropos of the moment that we're
in is he not long after the war they
ousted him and he was the right man at
that time who rose up and was exactly
what that country needed and look if
people are willing to reach within
themselves like this is a time for
people that are willing to step up and
shine this is a huge opportunity how do
you think about that like it it would be
very easy to see this time as you know
just a time to suffer and get through
like when you were cutting weight or do
you think that you know there is a way
to reframe this is opportunity I think
this is the grace I mean I'm I turned 40
this year this is the greatest
opportunity in the four decades I've
ever been on serf like I think you are
right now people are scared there's fear
and the people who everyone's looking to
be led like they're like everyone's just
freaked out even people who are leaders
are like trying to find people to lead
them right like everyone's everyone's
struggling I think the people that are
willing to stand up and raise their
hands and say look I'm gonna leave come
follow me
now is like the the time and I always
tell people like might have a big belief
that like the business isn't just like a
way we make money away we waste our time
like I believe the business as a calling
from God now he'll be like you've been
called to serve a group of people and
like now you've been call if you've ever
held that tug before like they my friend
Alex sharken calls with a call
contribution like you feel this this
this tug this pull like you've been
called and there's a group of people
that you have been called to serve that
you can change their life but you've got
to be willing to lie
do the things to like step up and like
there's so many fear I think that the
tons of people are called but most
people don't ever step up to and they
they shrink back down but those who are
willing to step up to that calling and
say alright my job I got a gather group
of people and with my gifts my talents
I'm gonna serve these people to the best
of my ability man on the other side of
this they're gonna be ones that have the
companies that have the brands that have
these things especially right now like
yeah we're giving like it's it's such a
double-edged sword like there's there's
all this fear was also blessed me right
now you'll get ad cos like I don't know
what you had seen our ad costs have
dropped dramatically I went from
spending four or five dollars for
webinar registrants riding our plane 78
cents we had 17,000 17,000 people
register for webinar I have tonight
17,000 like people are so cheap they're
looking they're begging they're they're
trying to find things I saw an article
from Facebook saying that they're gonna
lose forty billion dollars over the next
couple months because AD knows buying
ads and so we're coming in and like man
out I'm we can gather people at a cost
that's unheard of like I always tell
like I should go back when Google is
easy back you know 17 years ago I got
started like it just happened like like
three or four weeks ago I get it opened
up the ad cos dropped it's like but I
can gather people the cost now I never
could before and so I think you know on
the other side of this wasn't people who
missed this opportunity others who were
like look I jumped on and I found a
group I've called to serve them I'm
serving them and doing everything my
ability I'm gathering these people
together and and when others you know on
the other side of this and people are
gonna remember who is who was the person
that got me through the hard times who's
a person that gave me the hope in a
brighter future like those the people
they connect with and they're gonna keep
following for for forever and so I think
now such a unique awesome time and and
and we can get attention from so many
people such a discount it's just it's a
good time for them to start to start
stepping up and start publishing and
start putting your voice out there yeah
no question man how do I aggressively
agree with that I I'm not sure how
familiar people are but the way that you
think dude I think is extraordinary I
don't think it's any accident that
you've had the kind of success you've
had so where where can people find you
where can they find traffic secrets the
whole secret series what's the best way
to connect with you yeah you know they
go to traffic seekers calm right now
we're in the pre-launch so we have an
offering of the book for free you just
cover the shipping handling
it's hardbound it's like 400 page book
so it's 18 months with the writing and
you just got a couple of shipping
handling you get it and so that's there
and then obviously our my main company
is called click funnels and so that's
that's the place click funnels calm but
yeah that's that's kind of it I'm all
over the place I'm sure that if you
google my name you'll find me everywhere
yes you will
good will auto-populate this man as you
start typing letters so one final
question what is the impact that you
want to have on the world it's sad I
talked earlier about how people are
gatherers and I feel like my calling is
to gather gatherers and to bring people
together and give them tools and
resources to be able to serve their
audiences better so if you look at
everything we do from from clickfunnels
to software we have from the books I
write to everything it's it's giving
gatherers the tools to gather the people
and to serve them and I feel like I look
at as right now side click phones we
have over a hundred thousand active
members and I look at you know the
number we're always excited this company
a hundred thousand people but each
person is an entrepreneur and each
entrepreneur has the ability to change
someone's life and I share with my team
all the time like look I'm at about one
of our entrepreneurs and so I talked
about like kayln Poland for example so
she's one of our clickfunnels members
one of the hundred thousand and uh you
know three years ago she decided
Charlotte's weight loss business and
they launched on clickfunnels had no had
no idea they're doing with books but
that launched launch their their first
funnel now three years later they have
like 1.5 million women on the list over
a hundred thousand women have gone
through their weight loss courses and
how many lives like in families have
been transformed and changed because
like that one entrepreneur and we got
like Chris at crispies Cancer calm a guy
who goes through cancer and figure out a
way to naturally cure himself and then
he publishes on our platform and he's
now helped thousands of people who were
going through this fear of like of
cancer and not that he cures everyone
buddy helps people and I helps them
understand like all these amazing things
like that's one entrepreneur on the
platform and then I could list off I
mean hundreds and hundreds of names but
for me it's like man every every
entrepreneurial effect has the ability
to affect a hundred or a thousand or a
million people and so I anyway that's
the impact that we're trying to have is
how do we gather these gathers give them
the tools and the resources and the
knowledge they need to be able to gather
the people and serve them at high level
and if we can do that will change the
world
love that dude thank you so much for
coming on man this was a lot of fun
again I just love the way that you think
I love the way that you're crushing it
man I love you have optimism for the
period that we're in right now I share
that so brother I salute you thank you
so much for coming on the show everybody
if you haven't already gone into this
man's world do it is extraordinary and
if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe and until next time my friends
be legendary
take care hey everyone I want to tell
you all about our sponsor whoop life can
be stressful we're all impacted by
stress differently though from what we
do at work how we train and our lives at
home were constantly exerting ourselves
and oftentimes we only think about what
we do to stay fit and how we eat but we
overlook the importance of sleep in all
of this tomorrow's best work though is
done by night and our sponsor loop is a
fitness tracker strap with an incredible
app that helps monitor your sleep who
provides the personalized insights to
make smarter performance habits from
your sleep loop tracks all things sleep
from your sleep cycles stages
disturbances and efficiency based on how
strenuous your day is loop will provide
suggested sleep times so your body is
able to get the rest it needs to recover
loop also automatically tracks workouts
so you can focus on your training
whoomp has a built in app that's amazing
and it has this cool feature that allows
you to track your strain from training
in real-time monitor your calories
burned heart rate and what zone your
heart is in the loop strap 3.0 has
five-day battery life and on-the-go
charging so you never need to take it
off and it's even waterproof you can
also sync your heart rate to compatible
treadmills bikes and rowers and the woot
membership service provides a fitness
tracker for free and gives members
access to their app which provides
personalized insight into recovery
strain and sleep if you're looking to be
smarter about how you sleep recover and
train so you can be at your best you
have to get whoop-whoop is offering 15%
off to our audience when you go to whoop
calm and use the code
tea at checkout that's wh
ooo p.com and use the code i tee at
checkout to save fifteen percent off
your order unlock your best self today
with woop alright guys try this one out
take care and be legendary
the world and even school teaches us in
so many ways to work on our weaknesses
to get stronger and I think that's a
huge flaw I think we just get great at
what we're good at we only need to be
good at one or two things and we can
make an impact on the world